





2nd Session, 36th Parliament,
48 Elizabeth II, 1999










The House of Commons of Canada










BILL C-412









An Act to amend the Income Tax Act 
(exemption from taxation of 50% of U.S. 
social security payments to Canadian 
residents)







R.S., cc. 1, 2 
(5th Supp.); 
1994, cc. 7, 8, 
13, 21, 28, 29, 
38, 41; 1995, 
cc. 1, 3, 11, 
18, 21, 38, 46; 
1996, cc. 11, 
21, 23; 1997, 
cc. 10, 12, 25, 
26; 1998, cc. 
19, 21, 34; 
1999, cc. 10, 
17, 22, 26, 31


Her Majesty, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate and House of Commons 
of Canada, enacts as follows:









1. Subsection 81(1) of the Income Tax Act 
is amended by adding the following after 
paragraph (f):










(f.1) 35% of the aggregate of all amounts 
paid to the taxpayer in the taxation year by 
or on behalf of the government of the 
United States as a benefit under United 
States social security legislation, which 
percentage is in addition to and not 
inclusive of the 15% of such aggregate that 
is exempt from Canadian tax pursuant to 
paragraph 5(a) of Article XVIII of the 
Convention between Canada and the 
United States of America with respect to 
taxes on income and on capital, as amended 
by Schedule V of the Canada-United States 
Tax Convention Act, 1984.  







