





1st Session, 37th Parliament,
49-50 Elizabeth II, 2001 










House of Commons of Canada










BILL C-392









An Act to amend the Criminal Code (sex 
offences and violent offences)







R.S., c. C-46


Her Majesty, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate and House of Commons 
of Canada, enacts as follows:









1. The portion of section 742.1 of the 
Criminal Code before paragraph (a) is 
replaced by the following:







Imposing of 
conditional 
sentence


742.1 Subject to section 742.11,  where a 
person is convicted of an offence and the court










2. The Act is amended by adding the 
following after section 742.1:







No 
conditional 
sentence


742.11 Section 742.1 does not apply in 
respect of an offence










(a) that is punishable by a minimum term of 
imprisonment and that is not referred to in 
any of subparagraphs (b)(i) to (xxv);









(b) that is committed under any of









(i) paragraph 81(2)(a) (using explosives),









(ii) subsection 85(1) (using firearm in 
commission of offence),









(iii) section 151 (sexual interference),









(iv) section 152 (invitation to sexual 
touching),









(v) section 153 (sexual exploitation),









(vi) section 155 (incest),









(vii) section 159 (anal intercourse),









(viii) section 170 (parent or guardian 
procuring sexual activity by child),









(ix) subsection 212(2) (living off the 
avails of prostitution by a child),









(x) subsection 212(4) (obtaining sexual 
services of a child),









(xi) section 231 or 235 (first degree 
murder or second degree murder within 
the meaning of section 231),	









(xii) section 232, 234 or 236 
(manslaughter),









(xiii) section 239 (attempt to commit 
murder),









(xiv) section 267 (assault with a weapon 
or causing bodily harm),









(xv) section 268 (aggravated assault),









(xvi) section 269 (unlawfully causing 
bodily harm),









(xvii) section 271 (sexual assault),









(xviii)	section (272 sexual 
assault with a weapon, threats to a third 
party or causing bodily harm),









(xix) section 273 (aggravated sexual 
assault),









(xx) section 279 (kidnapping),









(xxi) section 344 (robbery),









(xxii) section 433 (arson - disregard for 
human life),









(xxiii)	section 434.1 
(arson - own property),









(xxiv) section 436 (arson by negligence), 
and









(xxv) paragraph 465(1)(a) (conspiracy to 
commit murder);









(c) that is committed under any of the 
following provisions of the Criminal Code, 
as they read immediately before July 1, 
1990:









(i) section 433 (arson),









(ii) section 434 (setting fire to other 
substance), and









(iii) section 436 (setting fire by 
negligence);









(d) that is committed under any of the 
following provisions of the Criminal Code, 
chapter C-34 of the Revised Statutes of 
Canada, 1970, as they read immediately 
before January 4, 1983:









(i) section 144 (rape),









(ii) section 145 (attempt to commit rape),









(iii) section 149 (indecent assault on 
female),









(iv) section 156 (indecent assault on 
male), and









(v) section 246 (assault with intent); or









(e) that is committed under any of the 
following provisions of the Controlled 
Drugs and Substances Act:









(i) section 5 (trafficking),









(ii) section 6 (importing and exporting), 
and









(iii) section 7 (production of substance).  







