





SUMMARY









This enactment provides for the development of a plan for the supply 
of drugs to protect the public from biological or biochemical aggression 
by means of terrorism or warfare. The plan includes provision for the 
necessary powers, reasonable compensation to drug suppliers, and a 
proposal for any amendments to the Patent Act required to put the plan 
into effect. The plan is to be laid before the House of Commons and 
referred to a standing committee.










To allow the protection plan to be developed by the Ministers of 
Industry and Health and considered by Parliament, the Governor in 
Council is empowered, for an interim period of one year, to order the 
provision of biochemical protection drugs at a price based on their 
incremental cost plus a reasonable profit. This temporary authority 
operates notwithstanding the Patent Act, but those affected may appeal 
the price in the Federal Court.










The enactment also provides for a Canadian initiative to fight 
epidemic diseases, including HIV, AIDS and tuberculosis, through an 
international program to make drugs available at incremental cost and 
provide the necessary health education in countries that have or are 
threatened with epidemic diseases.










It requires the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in co-operation with the 
Ministers of Industry and Health, to convene an international 
conference of developed nations to consider and propose a program of 
international assistance through the supply of epidemic disease drugs 
with the cooperation of drug manufacturers.








