





2nd Session, 36th Parliament,
48-49 Elizabeth II, 1999-2000










The House of Commons of Canada










BILL C-463









An Act to amend the Marriage (Prohibited 
Degrees) Act and the Interpretation Act










Her Majesty, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate and House of Commons 
of Canada, enacts as follows:









Marriage (Prohibited Degrees) Act






1990, c. 46


1. The long title of the Marriage 
(Prohibited Degrees) Act is replaced by the 
following:










An Act respecting and protecting marriage










2. Section 1 of the Act is replaced by the 
following:







Short title


1. This Act may be cited as the Marriage 
Act, 1990.










3. The Act is amended by adding the 
following after section 1:







Void marriage


1.1. A marriage is void unless it is a legal 
union of one man and one woman as husband 
and wife and neither the man nor the woman 
was married immediately prior to that union.  










RELATED AMENDMENTS






R.S., c. I-21


Interpretation Act









4. (1) Subsection 35(1) of the 
Interpretation Act is amended by adding the 
following in alphabetical order:







``marriage''
« mariage  »


``marriage'' means a legal union of one man 
and one woman as husband and wife that is 
not void under the Marriage Act, 1990;







``spouse''
« époux »


``spouse'' means either of a man or a woman 
who are married to each other;  










(2) The Act is amended by adding the 
following after subsection 35(1):







Construction 
of ``divorce''


(1.1) Wherever the term ``divorce'' is used 
in an enactment, the term refers to a 
dissolution of a marriage.







Construction 
of ``form of 
marriage''


(1.2) Wherever the term ``form of 
marriage'' is used in an enactment, the term 
refers to a form of marriage between a man 
and a woman.  








