





1st Session, 36th Parliament,
46 Elizabeth II, 1997










The House of Commons of Canada










BILL C-202









An Act to amend the Canada Health Act 
(nutrition services)







R.S., c. C-6; 
1995, c. 17; 
1996, cc. 8, 11


Her Majesty, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate and House of Commons 
of Canada, enacts as follows:









1. (1) Section 2 of the Canada Health Act 
is amended by adding the following in 
alphabetical order:







``nutrition 
services''
« services de 
diététique »


``nutrition services'' means the preparation 
and supervision of food diets in accordance 
with nutritional principles by a dietitian 
registered under provincial law.  










(2) The definition ``insured health ser
vices'' in section 2 is replaced by the 
following:







``insured 
health 
services''
« services de 
santé 
assurés »


``insured health services'' means hospital ser
vices, physician services, surgical-dental 
services and nutrition services  provided to 
insured persons, but does not include any 
health services that a person is entitled to 
and eligible for under any other Act of Par
liament or under any Act of the legislature 
of a province that relates to workers' or 
workmen's compensation;







``Coming into 
force''


2. This Act comes into force six months 
after the day on which it is assented to.








