





1st Session, 37th Parliament,
49-50 Elizabeth II, 2001 










House of Commons of Canada










BILL C-306









An Act to amend the Broadcasting Act and the 
Income Tax Act (Closed-captioned 
Programming)










Her Majesty, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate and House of Commons 
of Canada, enacts as follows:









BROADCASTING ACT






1991, c. 11


1. The Broadcasting Act is amended by 
adding the following after section 3:










Closed-captioned Programming






Requirement 
to provide 
closed 
captions


3.1 Each broadcasting undertaking shall 
broadcast its video programming with closed 
captions.  







R.S., C-1 (5th 
Supp.)


INCOME TAX ACT









2. Subsection 20(1) of the Income Tax Act 
is amended by striking out the word ``and'' 
at the end of paragraph (vv), by adding the 
word ``and'' at the end of paragraph (ww) 
and by adding the following after para
graph (ww):







Expenses 
relating to the 
broadcast of 
closed-caption
ed video 
programming


(xx) where the taxpayer is the holder of a 
licence to carry on a broadcasting 
undertaking or is exempt from the 
requirement to hold a licence under the 
Broadcasting Act, an amount not otherwise 
deductible paid by the taxpayer in the year 
for expenses relating to the 
closed-captioning of video programming.  









3. Section 1 comes into force on Septem
ber 1, 2003.








